.\" This manpage is written by Paul Slootman <paul@debian.org>.
.\" It is public domain.
.TH wwwoffle.options 5 "8 Oct 2003" "Debian GNU/Linux"
.SH NAME
wwwoffle.options \- configuration options for wwwoffle
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I /etc/wwwoffle/wwwoffle.options
contains a set of flags that determine some of the behavior of the
.I wwwoffle
daemon, which is run every time an internet connection comes up.
It is preferable to configure these settings using
.I debconf
via
.B dpkg-reconfigure wwwoffle
.PP
Available options are:
.IP ppp
This will enable
.I wwwoffle
to go online and offline (or autodial in case of a dial-on-demand connection)
automatically when the connection goes up and down.
Comment this option out if you don't use
.I wwwoffle
over a dialup connection or you don't want the scripts to manipulate the
mode; this forces the online mode always (in which case the
.I fetch
option has no effect, see the
.I fetch
option below).
.IP fetch
This will cause the
.I wwwoffle
daemon to get all the pages that were marked for
download immediately when the internet connection comes up. Some people do not
like this behaviour since they often go online just for a quick check
for new mail and want to fetch big web pages manually once a day.

.IP htdig
This will cause
.I htdig
to maintain a searchable index of the pages cached by
.I wwwoffle.
This used to be the default, but if a system has
.I htdig
installed for its own web pages, it would automatically also be used
for
.I wwwoffle,
which might not have been the intention.

.IP nocheckconf
(Not settable via debconf)
.br
This prevents the startup script
.I /etc/init.d/wwwoffle
from checking wwwoffle.conf for URL
specifications that end in '/'.  If such an URL is detected, a verbose
warning is given that such a specification will only match the '/' URL
on the host, and not the entire host as you might expect (add '*' to
the end for that).  However, perhaps you really want such a
specification; in that case, add a line with
.B nocheckconf
to
.I /etc/wwwoffle/wwwoffle.options
to prevent the warning.

.IP no-purge
(Not settable via debconf)
.br
This prevents the daily cron job
.I /etc/cron.daily/wwwoffle
from purging old content from the cache. Note that this means there's
no automatic cleanup, and hence the system will fill up over time!

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wwwoffle (1),
.BR wwwoffle.conf (5),
.BR wwwoffled (8),
.BR htdig (8)
.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written by Paul Slootman for Debian GNU/Linux.
