.TH wwwoffle-convert-cache 8 "November 2000" WWWOFFLE
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)

.SH NAME
wwwoffle-convert-cache \- convert the cache to the latest version

.SH SYNOPSIS
wwwoffle-convert-cache
.I <spool-dir>
|
.I -c configuration file

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.B This program is run automatically during installation.
Hence, you don't really need to know what it does... For your interest,
read on. The log of the run is in /var/log/wwwoffle-upgrade.log .

The format of the cache that WWWOFFLE uses to store the web pages has changed
very slightly in version 2.6 compared to the previous versions.  This is the
result of a total clean-up of the URL parsing and decoding/encoding functions.

The wwwoffled program uses the URL to calculate the filename that should be used
to store the file in the cache.  It is possible for different string
representations of the same URL to exist.  This will mean that two different
filenames can be calculated for the same web-page.

For example the following two URLs refer to the same object:

.nf
http://www.localhost/~user
http://www.localhost/%7Euser
.fi

The '~' character can be represented by '%7E' in a URL and it means exactly the
same thing.

The wwwoffled program tried in previous versions to map all equivalent URLs to
the same result.  There were some cases where this was not applied and it was
possible for the same object to be stored in the cache under two different
names.  The new version of the program takes a lot more care to ensure that all
possible versions of the same URL map to the same file.

If you do not run the conversion program as detailed below WWWOFFLE will still
work.  The only problem is that some cached files will become inaccessible.  I
estimate that about 1% of files or fewer will change.

Take a look at the /usr/share/doc/wwwoffle directory for more information.

.SH FILES
\fI/var/cache/wwwoffle\fR  default location of the cache.

.SH AUTHOR
manpage by Paul Slootman \fB<paul@debian.org>\fP, based on the CONVERT
text file included in the wwwoffle distribution and available in a debian
installation as /usr/share/doc/wwwoffle/CONVERT .
