.TH WWWOFFLE 8
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)

.SH NAME
wwwoffle\-tools \- tools to manage wwwoffle cache

.SH SYNOPSIS
wwwoffle-ls (<dir>/<subdir> | <protocol>://<host> | <URL>)
.br
wwwoffle-mv (<dir1>/<subdir1> | <protocol1>://<host1>)
.br
            (<dir2>/<subdir2> | <protocol2>://<host2>)
.br
wwwoffle-rm <URL>
.br
wwwoffle-read [--removeheader] <URL>
.br
wwwoffle-write [--addheader] <URL>
.br
wwwoffle-hash <URL>
.br
wwwoffle-fsck
.br
wwwoffle-gunzip ( <dir>/<subdir> | <protocol>://<host> ) ...
.br
wwwoffle-gzip ( <dir>/<subdir> | <protocol>://<host> ) ...
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
These eight commands can be used from the command line to inspect
the wwwoffle cache, to move the cached pages around and to remove
the cached pages from the cache. Using the wwwoffle HTML interface
is much better and can be done even by normal users.

.TP
.B wwwoffle-ls
list the files in the directory in the style of 'ls -l'.
For example use 'wwwoffle-ls http/foo' to list the URLs cached
in the directory http/foo.

.TP
.B wwwoffle-mv
To rename a host directory in the spool to another name.  Because the URL is
encoded in the filename just renaming the directory will not work.
Instead of 'mv http/foo http/bar' use 'wwwoffle-mv http/foo http/bar'.

.TP
.B wwwoffle-rm
Delete the URL that is specified on the command line.
To delete all URLs from a host it is easier to
use 'rm -r http/foo' than using this.

.TP
.B wwwoffle-read
Read data directly from the cache for the URL named on the
command line and output it on stdout.

If --removeheader is used, the HTTP header will be removed for you.

.TP
.B wwwoffle-write
Write data directly to the cache for the URL named on the
command line from stdin.  Note this requires a HTTP header to
be included first or browsers may get confused.

.nf
     (echo "HTTP/1.0 200 OK";
      echo "Content-Type: text/html";
      echo "" ; cat bar.html ) |
     wwwoffle-write http://www.foo/bar.html
.fi

If --addheader is used, the above header will be generated for you,
so that the data can be redirected without the need for the echoes above.

If a different header is required, it will have to be generated externally as in the example above.

This should only be done as the user "proxy", else the file can't be written
(in case of a normal user), or the file can't be removed later (in case of
doing this as root).

.TP
.B wwwoffle-hash
Print WWWOFFLE's encoding of the submitted URL. This is
useful for scripts working on the WWWOFFLE cache.

.TP
.B wwwoffle-fsck
Check the cache for inconsistent filenames and fix them.

.TP
.B wwwoffle-gzip, wwwoffle-gunzip
Compress or uncompress the cached copy of the specified URLs.

.SH FILES
.br
.nf
.\" set tabstop to longest possible filename, plus a wee bit
.ta \w'/usr/lib/perl/getopts.pl   'u
\fI/var/cache/wwwoffle\fR  default wwwoffle cache

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Federico Di Gregorio \fB<fog@debian.org>\fP
.br
Updated by Paul Slootman \fB<paul@debian.org>\fP


